well qatar's foreign Ministry
spokesperson has said in a briefing that
according to the Qatari prime minister
negotiations between Hamas and Israel
have hit a roadblock in recent days the
Prime Minister had blamed the dire
humanitarian conditions in
Gaza the past three weeks saw some
progress between the ongoing
negotiations between Hamas and Israel
however the last three days so more
disputes he reiterated that the decisive
and key issues namely the dire
humanitarian situation as well as the
Dual standards adopted by the
International Community has been
negatively impacting uh disputes namely
this in Gaza he also drew a comparison
between the war in Gaza and that of
Ukraine well Russell s joins us now live
from doar I know you were in that
briefing can you just give us the latest
about the humanitarian Aid as well as
qatar's position about is Israeli
accusations well he said that in the
last week there has been several Kari
military airplanes uh getting the
humanitarian Aid to Al arish in uh in
Egypt and that uh that Aid is expected
to be distributed and of course that
depends on the ongoing negotiations as
in the last three days there has been
lots of disputes uh going on around how
to deliver the humanitarian uh Aid and
also he said that there have been
several uh Palestinians from Gaza being
taken out of Gaza and taken to to to to
Doha to Qatar to be uh to receive the
medical uh support so when it comes to
Israeli accusations regarding qatar's
position or Israeli accusations that
Qatar is siding with Hamas he said that
these statements from the Israeli top
Israeli officials are just for the uh
internal domestic political consumptions
and definitely they are not helpful in
regard to the on on goinging Med
mediation and the negotiation force over
there and he also said that now as the
humanitarian crisis disaster catastrophe
is just deepening and deepening in Gaza
the International Community needs to act
swiftly because now if they do not do
that as particularly people are being
more and more gathered in Rafa that
humanarian catastrophe is just going to
turn um worse and worse day by day
that's why the International Community
needs to act now and swiftly and uh
Russell the other topic that's been
discussed the impact of a potential
Israeli offensive on Rua what sort of
impact is that having on mediation
efforts well we can see that that is
actually a major concern here in the
foreign M Ministry of Qatar in in in
Doha so said that the spokesperson of
the forign ministry says that already we
know that there are around 1 million
people gathered in Rafa and humanitarian
situation there is quite dire quite um
catastrophic and if Israelis he says he
doesn't want to speculate about it but
if Israelis decide to go on particularly
on a ground offensive there that is just
going to worsen the situation and also
he said that uh he's not going to
disclose the details of the negotiations
and the mediation of force however if
Israel conducts any attacks on Rafa that
is going to have a significant impact on
the ongoing negotiation and mediation
force and he also has been quite
critical toward the in international
institutions he said there has been
several un resolutions and also the
provisional measures um announced by the
international cour court of justice
however Israel has has ignored all of
them and he says that if these
provisional measures if these
resolutions are not going to be abide by
then this is undermining The credibility
of this International institutions and
more and more people are now questioning
the credibility the functionality and
the deterrence of these International um
International institutions and that's
why I say that the decisions the
resolutions that are being taken by the
UN and also the provisional measures
announced announced by the international
court of justice needs to be taken
seriously otherwise now what is at a
stake is The credibility of these
International institutions okay thanks
so much whistle whistle ctif first us
there in Doha